we begin with the war in Gaza the United
States is making a major push to pause
fighting in the strip with diplomatic
efforts taking place both in the region
and at the United Nations the UN
Security Council endorsed a ceasefire
proposal for Gaza on Monday and it's the
first time the council has passed a
resolution demanding a stop in fighting
after eight months of war the resolution
urges both Hamas and Israel to fully and
quickly implement the three-phase plan
14 countries voted in favor and Russia
abstained a US ambassador to the UN
Linda Thomas Greenfield says the
resolution shows Hamas that the
International Community is
United colleagues today this Council
sent a clear message to
Hamas accept the ceasefire deal on the
table Israeli Israel has already agreed
to this deal and the fighting could stop
today if Hamas would do the same I
repeat the fighting could stop today
Linda Thomas Greenfield there well the
vote came as the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is visiting the Middle
East it's the eighth time he's been to
the region since the October the 7th
attacks Mr blinkin is fiercely
advocating for the ceasefire deal
proposed by President Biden 10 days ago
as part of that effort he's met the
Egyptian president Abdul fat CI on
Monday and has held talks in Jerusalem
with the Israeli prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu for the latest I spoke to our
correspondent in Jerusalem Yulan Nell
and we started by talking about the
security council's endorsement of the
ceasefire
proposal well I mean first of all
diplomatically this was very significant
it's really strong International
endorsement of that plan that was laid
out by President Biden a three-phase
plan uh back on the 31st of May now of
course that was being presented at the
time as an Israeli plan that's been the
the US position since um but you know on
the ground um I don't think this is
going to lead to a breakthrough at the
moment as much as we have the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinken uh
back in the region for his eighth tour
uh since this War Began he's trying to
to push both sides into a full
acceptance um of this deal as he goes
about his his different meetings um but
you know Israel even in its response uh
at the UN its representative made clear
that the country military objective
remains uh to dismantle hamas's military
capabilities in Gaza as well as to bring
the hostages home and then you have
Hamas it's welcomed this vote but at the
same time it it's not given an official
endorsement of it either and you know
Hamas is very much stuck to its position
that it wants to have guarantees that
there will be as a result of any deal
that signs up to a full withdrawal of
Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip a
full end uh to the War uh that is not
Israel's position andand as you
mentioned it's the first time that the
security Council has passed a resolution
to stop the fighting what could you
remind us of what this plan actually
entails this ceasefire
proposal well I mean this is um the most
detailed plan that we've had back in
March there was a resolution that went
through at the UN Security Council when
the us abstained but what we've had this
time is its closest Ally the US actually
pushing this text through to very much
reflect the text um of President Biden
um in his 31st of of May uh speech that
came out with much fanfare so the first
phase would be for a six- week truce
where we'd see many of the Israeli
hostages still held by Hamas in Gaza
being returned home uh in return for an
immediate truce and uh many Palestinian
prisoners being released uh from Israeli
jails the problem comes more with phase
two of the plan where negotiations are
supposed to continue um for what is
termed a permanent end to hostilities
with more of of the hostages coming out
at at that stage uh particularly uh the
male soldiers who who remain in
captivity and the problem really is
getting from that phase one uh to phase
two uh Hamas worries that Israel would
walk away after after phase one uh so
that's really where Regional Partners
come in to try to kind of give the those
guarantees and Mr blinken on his trip to
this region he's already been in Egypt
that's another country that's inol D in
mediations acting as a go between for
Israel and Hamas um he's going to be in
Jordan later in the day but then he'll
go to katar which is another uh country
which is involved in these mediation
efforts that was youran now